README.md, before:

# Solenoid
### Route Filtering Agent
##### Author: Lisa Roach
##### Email: lisroach@cisco.com

## Description:

The end goal of this Route injector app is to be able to take any given logic and 
make changes to the prefixes on a RIB table.

The changes to the RIB are accomplished by using RESTconf calls to send JSON modeled by YANG. The YANG model I am currently using is [Cisco-IOS-XR-ip-static-cfg] (https://github.com/YangModels/yang/blob/master/vendor/cisco/xr/600/Cisco-IOS-XR-ip-static-cfg.yang). This model will likely change in the future, see Limitations.

For reading BGP changes I am using [exaBGP] (https://github.com/Exa-Networks/exabgp). Exabgp allows me to monitor BGP network announcements, withdrawals, etc. and trigger the RESTconf changes based on these updates. 

### Work in Progress:

Be able to update RIB only with networks from preferred neighbors (based on some blackbox of logic)

Be able to filter the routes based on prefixes ranges.

Test at scale.

Change from RESTconf backend to [gRPC](http://www.grpc.io/docs/tutorials/basic/python.html)

Create tar of project container, as well as create a vagrant environment including IOS-XRv image, the app, and simulated network environment.

#### Current Limitations:

As of now, the IOS-XR 6.0 device I am using does not have completed YANG models
for BGP RIB changes. As a temporary workaround, I can only add static routes
to the RIB.


### Usage:

Step 1: Clone this repo and run ```python setup.py install``` to install the Solenoid application.

Step 2 : Create an solenoid.config file in your home directory and fill in the values in the key:value pair. The application will fail:

```
[default] # Or whatever you want to name this section, it maybe helpful to name it the router you are working on
ip: ip_address
port: port number
username: username
password: password

```

Step 3: Set a ROUTE_INJECT_CONFIG environment variable pointing to the filepath of your config file. 

```
$ export ROUTE_INJECT_CONFIG=/home/user/solenoid/solenoid.config
```

Step 4: Set up [exaBGP] (https://github.com/Exa-Networks/exabgp). Form a neighborship with your BGP network. 

Step 5: Make sure RESTconf calls are working from your device to the RIB table

Example test (you should recieve your device's whole configuration):

```
curl -X GET -H "Accept:application/yang.data+json,application/yang.errors+json" -H "Authorization: <INSERT YOUR AUTH CODE>" http://<YOUR IP>/restconf/data/?content=config
```


Step 6: Change your exaBGP configuration file to run the edit_rib.py script. 

Example:

```
group test {
        router-id x.x.x.x;

        process monitor-neighbors {
            encoder json;
            receive {
                parsed;
                updates;
                neighbor-changes;
            }
            run /your/python/location /path/to/bgp-filter/rest_calls/edit_rib.py;
        }

        neighbor y.y.y.y {
            local-address x.x.x.x;
            local as ####;
            peer-as ####;
        }

}

```

Step 7: Launch your exaBGP instance. You should see the syslog HTTP status codes if it is successful.

Commit message:

Updated README.md with filter.txt details.

README.md, after:

# Solenoid
### Route Filtering Agent
##### Author: Lisa Roach
##### Email: lisroach@cisco.com

## Description:

The end goal of this Route injector app is to be able to take any given logic and 
make changes to the prefixes on a RIB table.

The changes to the RIB are accomplished by using RESTconf calls to send JSON modeled by YANG. The YANG model I am currently using is [Cisco-IOS-XR-ip-static-cfg] (https://github.com/YangModels/yang/blob/master/vendor/cisco/xr/600/Cisco-IOS-XR-ip-static-cfg.yang). This model will likely change in the future, see Limitations.

For reading BGP changes I am using [exaBGP] (https://github.com/Exa-Networks/exabgp). Exabgp allows me to monitor BGP network announcements, withdrawals, etc. and trigger the RESTconf changes based on these updates. 

### Work in Progress:

Be able to update RIB only with networks from preferred neighbors (based on some blackbox of logic)

Be able to filter the routes based on prefixes ranges.

Test at scale.

Change from RESTconf backend to [gRPC](http://www.grpc.io/docs/tutorials/basic/python.html)

Create tar of project container, as well as create a vagrant environment including IOS-XRv image, the app, and simulated network environment.

#### Current Limitations:

As of now, the IOS-XR 6.0 device I am using does not have completed YANG models
for BGP RIB changes. As a temporary workaround, I can only add static routes
to the RIB.


### Usage:

Step 1: Clone this repo and run ```python setup.py install``` to install the Solenoid application. You may have to use sudo. 

Step 2 : Create an solenoid.config file in your home directory and fill in the values in the key:value pair:

```
[default] # Or whatever you want to name this section, it maybe helpful to name it the router you are working on
ip: ip_address
port: port number
username: username
password: password

```

Step 3: Set a ROUTE_INJECT_CONFIG environment variable pointing to the filepath of your config file. 

```
$ export ROUTE_INJECT_CONFIG=/home/user/solenoid/solenoid.config

```

Step 4 (optional): Create a filter.txt file to include the ranges of prefixes to be filtered with. Example:

```
1.1.1.0/32-1.1.2.0/32
10.1.1.0/32-10.1.5.0/32
192.168.1.0/28-192.168.2.0/28
```

Step 5: Set up [exaBGP] (https://github.com/Exa-Networks/exabgp). Form a neighborship with your BGP network. 

Step 6: Make sure RESTconf calls are working from your device to the RIB table

Example test (you should receive your device's whole configuration):

```
curl -X GET -H "Accept:application/yang.data+json,application/yang.errors+json" -H "Authorization: <INSERT YOUR AUTH CODE>" http://<YOUR IP>/restconf/data/?content=config
```

Step 7: Change your exaBGP configuration file to run the edit_rib.py script. The important part is the process monitor-neighbors section, the rest is basic exaBGP configuration.


Example:

```
group test {
        router-id x.x.x.x;

        process monitor-neighbors {
            encoder json;
            receive {
                parsed;
                updates;
                neighbor-changes;
            }
            run /your/python/location /path/to/bgp-filter/rest_calls/edit_rib.py;
        }

        neighbor y.y.y.y {
            local-address x.x.x.x;
            local as ####;
            peer-as ####;
        }

}

```

If you chose to add a filter file, you must add the path to the file in the run call with the file flag -f (be sure to include the quotes):

```
run /your/python/location /path/to/bgp-filter/rest_calls/edit_rib.py -f '/path/to/filter/file'
```

Step 7: Launch your exaBGP instance. You should see the syslog HTTP status codes if it is successful.
